====================================================================================================
C:\Users\Zh89\Desktop\毕设\开题\师兄提供文献\direct sound printing.pdf
pages: 11
keyword hits:
cavitation: 27
bubble: 22
bubbles: 15
polymer: 29
polymerization: 9
curing: 38
cure: 11
dose: 0
void: 0
acoustic: 25
pressure: 27
threshold: 0
radical: 6

FIRST_12000:

--- PAGE 1 ---
ARTICLE
Direct sound printing
Mohsen Habibi 1, Shervin Foroughi 1, Vahid Karamzadeh 1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy 1 ✉
Photo- and thermo-activated reactions are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro-
cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated
sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with
extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which
are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of
structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates
sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero
to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound
Printing (DSP), in a heat curing thermoset, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) that cannot be printed
directly so far by any method. Sonochemiluminescnce, high speed imaging and process
characterization experiments of DSP and potential applications such as remote distance
printing are presented. Our method establishes an alternative route in AM using ultrasound
as the energy source.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 OPEN
1 Optical Bio Microsystems Laboratory, Micro-Nano-Bio Integration Center, Department of Mechanical, Industrial and Aerospace Engineering, Conco rdia
University, Montreal, QC, Canada. ✉email: pmuthu@alcor.concordia.ca
NATURE COMMUNICATIONS |         (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications 1
1234567890():,;
--- PAGE 2 ---
D
espite recent signi ﬁcant developments in additive manu-
facturing (AM) technologies, from printing materials 1–6
to processes 7–13, light and heat are still the only energy
sources used in AM to drive chemical reactions or physical
transformations of polymers. Therefore, materials in AM pro-
cesses are limited to photo-sensitive resins, like in stereo-
lithography (SLA)
14 or direct laser writing (DLW) 15, and
thermoplastic ﬁlaments or powders, like in fused deposition
modeling (FDM)16 or selective laser sintering (SLS) 17. Parameters
controlling the chemical interactions are de ﬁned by the amount
of energy per molecule, interaction time and pressure 18–22.
Existing AM energy sources, light and heat, do not utilize all the
potential of the chemistry in terms of the control parameters
while sonochemistry pushes these parameters to their limits.
Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high
pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates
(over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as
hotspots23,24, surrounded by bulk liquid at room temperature, are
the reasons for the sonochemical reactions.
If one could unleash the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro-
cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as
impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would
emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset
polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally.
Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via
light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing
of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty
of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized
regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials
due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling
rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied
extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c
bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which
is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of
polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing.
Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build
chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer mixed with
curing agent or different mixtures) through exposing to the
focused ultrasonic ﬁeld. We call this method Direct Sound
Printing (DSP). The ultrasonic ﬁeld, which is generated by a
monolithic spherical focused transducer, reaches the build
material after passing through the shell of the build chamber. At
the focal location in the build material, as shown in Fig. 1a and
detailed in Fig. 1b, the chemically active acoustic cavitation region
solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat-
form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We
call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where
generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low-
pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high-
pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli-
diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in
the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region
along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired
part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process affect the
microstructure of the printed parts. These parameters are char-
acteristics of the transducer driving pulse (such as electrical
power, frequency and duty cycle which is the active fraction of the
driving pulse period), build materials (such as the mixing ratio of
monomer to curing agent, mixture ratio, viscosity and surface
tension) and the transducer motion (such as velocity and accel-
eration of the transducer). Different micro structures result in
optically transparent to opaque parts in DSP. The resultant
opacity is due to the porous structure of the printed part, which
can be controlled/by manipulating the DSP input parameters.
As shown in Fig. 1c, letters of “DSP” are printed with varying
mixing ratios of base Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) to the curing
agent. Mixing ratio 10:1 (polymer base to curing agent) gives
layered porous/transparent structure for letters “D” and “P” as
shown Fig. 1c-1, 1c-2, and 1c-4. However, ratio 13:1 gives a
transparent structure as shown Fig. 1c-3. Therefore, DPS is
capable of printing parts from optically transparent to opaque
(porous) parts. Although transparent PDMS is desirable in many
applications, porous PDMS (sponge) has a wide range of
applications29 too from ﬂexible conductors to tissue engineering.
Figure 1d also shows two printed parts of the same impeller
geometry, one transparent and the other porous/opaque. We
added dye (commercial oil color) to create colored parts as shown
in Fig. 1e–h. Figure 1i shows a molded PDMS micro ﬂuidic
channel using a silanized master PDMS mold printed by DSP.
Supplementary Movie 1 shows the apparatus (Fig. 1a) in action
while printing transparent and porous structures.
The initial idea of DSP originates in our sonochemilumi-
nescnce (SCL) experiments on alkaline aqueous solution of
luminol (3-aminophthalhydrazide) to identify the spatial dis-
tribution of active chemical regions under focused ultrasound
exposure (see Supplementary Information and Supplementary
Figs. 1 –7). Hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen peroxide generated
sonochemcially react with luminol where blue light is
emitted30–32. We observed the localized light at the focal region at
certain experimental conditions. If we could utilize this reactivity
of the localized region in the printing polymer, we could drive
polymerization in the region and solidify the material conse-
quently. The resemblance of this active region to the laser beam
spot SLA inspired us to seek the possibility of printing with
acoustic waves. In photochemistry (as in SLA), very large
amounts of energy are introduced in a short-period in the form of
electrical excitation. However, in sonochemistry (as in DSP), this
energy is thermal 20 with very fast heating and cooling rate inside
the cavitation bubble so that it doesn ’t transfer to the surrounding
liquid. This short-lived thermal energy could polymerize heat-
curing polymers in DSP.
Results
Close observation of UAMR during insonication . In order to
examine closely the concept of DSP, we conducted series of high-
speed imaging tests as shown in Fig. 2 to observe the UAMR
regions and the physical transformation of the liquid resin to
solid in these areas. Figure 2a, b are the front and side views of the
setup, respectively. PDMS is contained in the chamber in Fig. 2a,
b. The chamber is placed at a constant distance, H, from the
transducer. The glass platform is moved (along y′ axis with
velocity, v) and located (by a distance, h, from the bottom of the
chamber) in the chamber by a motion manipulator. The DSP
process is captured by/both high speed and digital single-lens
reﬂex (DSLR) cameras as shown in Fig. 2a, b. The ﬁrst set of tests
are conducted with a static platform ( v = 0) with h = 30 mm and
22 mm. 30 mm is selected because at this location the platform is
placed at the highly chemically active region. The simulated linear
acoustic pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The
maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform
surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if
the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap-
pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if
the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic
pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface
due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e illustrates
the captured printing phenomena in the chamber for h = 30 mm
(corresponding to Fig. 2c). Figure 2e-1a shows the moment right
before the insonication at t = 0 of the area A shown in Fig. 2a.
Figure 2e-1b is the magni ﬁed region showed in Fig. 2e-1a. Figure
2e-1a and 2e-1c are captured by the high-speed camera and the
ARTICLE NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1
2 NATURE COMMUNICATIONS |         (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications
--- PAGE 3 ---
DSLR camera, respectively, and they are timely synchronized. The
cavitation bubbles start to appear at about 2.5 ms at low-pressure
zones as shown in Fig. 2e-2b with arrows. The footage of high-
speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup-
plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that
we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser-
ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for
observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic pressure var-
iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure
and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high-
density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles
are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily
migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen in Supplementary
Movies 2, 3. The distance between consecutive low or high-
pressure zones is λ as shown in Fig. 2e-3b. λ = λ0/2 where λ0 is
the ultrasound wavelength at the transducer driving frequency.
λ0 = 474 μm for Sylgard-184 (as our PDMS system) medium at
2.15 MHz. The deposited area grows during 2 s of the continuous
insonication and the UAMR region is clearly seen in Fig. 2e and
highlighted in Fig. 2e-8b.
Figure 2f shows the footage of 2 s insonication in case of Fig. 2d
where h = 22 mm. The high-speed imaging con ﬁrms the results
of Fig. 2d in which chemically active regions are not located at the
platform surface. At t = 2.3 ms, ﬁrst bubbles appear at two
locations as indicated by arrows in Fig. 2f-2. At the beginning,
bubbles/solidiﬁed material moves away from the platform and
against the streaming direction. The similar phenomena has been
observed in boiling histotripsy of tissues that leaves a tadpole
lesion area 33,34. The opposite direction movement of the
solidiﬁed material is due to the back scattering of the ultrasound
ﬁeld caused by the cavitation bubbles. However, after t = 255 ms
(Fig. 2f-8), the solidi ﬁed material is carried towards the platform
z
x
y
Printed PartHIFU
Tran

SNIPPETS FOR cavitation:
[1] d reactions are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm fe
[2] on bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound Printing (DSP), in a heat curing thermoset, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) that cannot be printed directly so far by any method. Sonochemiluminescnce, high speed imaging and process cha
[3] are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound Printing (DSP), in a heat curing thermoset, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) that cannot be printed directly so far by any method. Sonochemiluminescnce, high speed imaging and process characterization experiments of DSP and potential applications such as remote distance printing are presented. 
[4] hile sonochemistry pushes these parameters to their limits. Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates (over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as hotspots23,24, surrounded by bulk liquid at room temperature, are the reasons for the sonochemical reactions. If one could unleash the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can
[5] cused transducer, reaches the build material after passing through the shell of the build chamber. At the focal location in the build material, as shown in Fig. 1a and detailed in Fig. 1b, the chemically active acoustic cavitation region solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they ar
[6] A), very large amounts of energy are introduced in a short-period in the form of electrical excitation. However, in sonochemistry (as in DSP), this energy is thermal 20 with very fast heating and cooling rate inside the cavitation bubble so that it doesn ’t transfer to the surrounding liquid. This short-lived thermal energy could polymerize heat- curing polymers in DSP. Results Close observation of UAMR during insonication . In order to examine closely the concept of DSP, we conducted series of high- speed imaging tests as shown in Fig. 2 to observe the UAMR regions and the physical transformation of the liquid resin to solid in the
[7] 29395-1 2 NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications --- PAGE 3 --- DSLR camera, respectively, and they are timely synchronized. The cavitation bubbles start to appear at about 2.5 ms at low-pressure zones as shown in Fig. 2e-2b with arrows. The footage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to t
[8] ows. The footage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic pressure var- iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high- density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen 

SNIPPETS FOR bubble:
[1]  are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size 
[2] emistry pushes these parameters to their limits. Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates (over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as hotspots23,24, surrounded by bulk liquid at room temperature, are the reasons for the sonochemical reactions. If one could unleash the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured e
[3] vitation region solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process 
[4] rge amounts of energy are introduced in a short-period in the form of electrical excitation. However, in sonochemistry (as in DSP), this energy is thermal 20 with very fast heating and cooling rate inside the cavitation bubble so that it doesn ’t transfer to the surrounding liquid. This short-lived thermal energy could polymerize heat- curing polymers in DSP. Results Close observation of UAMR during insonication . In order to examine closely the concept of DSP, we conducted series of high- speed imaging tests as shown in Fig. 2 to observe the UAMR regions and the physical transformation of the liquid resin to solid in these areas. F
[5] ATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications --- PAGE 3 --- DSLR camera, respectively, and they are timely synchronized. The cavitation bubbles start to appear at about 2.5 ms at low-pressure zones as shown in Fig. 2e-2b with arrows. The footage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic
[6] otage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic pressure var- iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high- density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen in Suppleme
[7] ing to the acoustic pressure var- iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high- density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen in Supplementary Movies 2, 3. The distance between consecutive low or high- pressure zones is λ as shown in Fig. 2e-3b. λ = λ0/2 where λ0 is the ultrasound wavelength at the transducer driving frequency. λ0 = 474 μm for Sylgard-184 (as our PDMS system) medium at 2.15 MHz. The deposited area grows during 2 s
[8]  the footage of 2 s insonication in case of Fig. 2d where h = 22 mm. The high-speed imaging con ﬁrms the results of Fig. 2d in which chemically active regions are not located at the platform surface. At t = 2.3 ms, ﬁrst bubbles appear at two locations as indicated by arrows in Fig. 2f-2. At the beginning, bubbles/solidiﬁed material moves away from the platform and against the streaming direction. The similar phenomena has been observed in boiling histotripsy of tissues that leaves a tadpole lesion area 33,34. The opposite direction movement of the solidiﬁed material is due to the back scattering of the ultrasound ﬁeld caused by the 

SNIPPETS FOR bubbles:
[1]  are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size 
[2] emistry pushes these parameters to their limits. Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates (over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as hotspots23,24, surrounded by bulk liquid at room temperature, are the reasons for the sonochemical reactions. If one could unleash the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured e
[3] vitation region solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process 
[4] ATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications --- PAGE 3 --- DSLR camera, respectively, and they are timely synchronized. The cavitation bubbles start to appear at about 2.5 ms at low-pressure zones as shown in Fig. 2e-2b with arrows. The footage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic
[5] otage of high- speed imaging experiments for different h can be found in Sup- plementary Movie 2. We conducted these tests in such a way that we can be bene ﬁted by both shadowgraph technique (for obser- ving cavitation bubbles) and Schlieren photography concept (for observing pressure waves). Owing to the acoustic pressure var- iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high- density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen in Suppleme
[6] ing to the acoustic pressure var- iation and consequent density change of the resin, low-pressure and low density regions appear lighter while high-pressure high- density regions appears darker in the high-speed images. Bubbles are generated in the low-pressure zones and then momentarily migrate to the high-pressure zones as seen in Supplementary Movies 2, 3. The distance between consecutive low or high- pressure zones is λ as shown in Fig. 2e-3b. λ = λ0/2 where λ0 is the ultrasound wavelength at the transducer driving frequency. λ0 = 474 μm for Sylgard-184 (as our PDMS system) medium at 2.15 MHz. The deposited area grows during 2 s
[7]  the footage of 2 s insonication in case of Fig. 2d where h = 22 mm. The high-speed imaging con ﬁrms the results of Fig. 2d in which chemically active regions are not located at the platform surface. At t = 2.3 ms, ﬁrst bubbles appear at two locations as indicated by arrows in Fig. 2f-2. At the beginning, bubbles/solidiﬁed material moves away from the platform and against the streaming direction. The similar phenomena has been observed in boiling histotripsy of tissues that leaves a tadpole lesion area 33,34. The opposite direction movement of the solidiﬁed material is due to the back scattering of the ultrasound ﬁeld caused by the 
[8] ging con ﬁrms the results of Fig. 2d in which chemically active regions are not located at the platform surface. At t = 2.3 ms, ﬁrst bubbles appear at two locations as indicated by arrows in Fig. 2f-2. At the beginning, bubbles/solidiﬁed material moves away from the platform and against the streaming direction. The similar phenomena has been observed in boiling histotripsy of tissues that leaves a tadpole lesion area 33,34. The opposite direction movement of the solidiﬁed material is due to the back scattering of the ultrasound ﬁeld caused by the cavitation bubbles. However, after t = 255 ms (Fig. 2f-8), the solidi ﬁed material is c

SNIPPETS FOR polymer:
[1]  --- ARTICLE Direct sound printing Mohsen Habibi 1, Shervin Foroughi 1, Vahid Karamzadeh 1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy 1 ✉ Photo- and thermo-activated reactions are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultr
[2] n Habibi 1, Shervin Foroughi 1, Vahid Karamzadeh 1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy 1 ✉ Photo- and thermo-activated reactions are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reacti
[3] pments in additive manu- facturing (AM) technologies, from printing materials 1–6 to processes 7–13, light and heat are still the only energy sources used in AM to drive chemical reactions or physical transformations of polymers. Therefore, materials in AM pro- cesses are limited to photo-sensitive resins, like in stereo- lithography (SLA) 14 or direct laser writing (DLW) 15, and thermoplastic ﬁlaments or powders, like in fused deposition modeling (FDM)16 or selective laser sintering (SLS) 17. Parameters controlling the chemical interactions are de ﬁned by the amount of energy per molecule, interaction time and pressure 18–22. Exist
[4]  sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly 
[5] ermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by 
[6] g very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer m
[7]  extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer mixed with curing agent or different mixtures) through exposing to the focused ultrasonic ﬁeld. We call this method Direct Sound Printing (DSP). The ultrasonic ﬁeld, which is generated by a monolithic spherical focused transducer, reaches the build material 
[8] ion solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process affect the m

SNIPPETS FOR polymerization:
[1]  --- ARTICLE Direct sound printing Mohsen Habibi 1, Shervin Foroughi 1, Vahid Karamzadeh 1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy 1 ✉ Photo- and thermo-activated reactions are dominant in Additive Manufacturing (AM) pro- cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultr
[2] g very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer m
[3]  extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer mixed with curing agent or different mixtures) through exposing to the focused ultrasonic ﬁeld. We call this method Direct Sound Printing (DSP). The ultrasonic ﬁeld, which is generated by a monolithic spherical focused transducer, reaches the build material 
[4] ere blue light is emitted30–32. We observed the localized light at the focal region at certain experimental conditions. If we could utilize this reactivity of the localized region in the printing polymer, we could drive polymerization in the region and solidify the material conse- quently. The resemblance of this active region to the laser beam spot SLA inspired us to seek the possibility of printing with acoustic waves. In photochemistry (as in SLA), very large amounts of energy are introduced in a short-period in the form of electrical excitation. However, in sonochemistry (as in DSP), this energy is thermal 20 with very fast heat
[5] ability properties 50,51. Sophisticated light-based AM is able to print optically cured silicone elastomers 52–54. However, this method requires postprocessing of some of the printed parts to remove remaining toxic photopolymerization byproducts and unreacted compounds by solvents52. Moreover, there is no practical solution for printing thermally cured thermosets 25, in this case heat-curing PDMS, as always an additive 55 needed to be introduced to change the rheology of the printing material 56, mainly to increase the visc- osity of the deposited material to stand long enough for heat- curing or release the material completely in a
[6] lly active regions in the printing resin or resin mixture medium in which the resin undergoes fast phase transformation from liquid to solid under sonochemical reactions. With DSP, heat-curing polymers with free radical polymerization process such as heat- curing thermosets, which could not be printed directly by photo or heat energy sources in AM processes, can now be printed directly. The basic mechanism of DSP is presented using SCL experiments. The chemically active 3D printing region in DSP is analogous to a laser beam spot in common photo or heat-based AM technologies. Our high-speed imaging experiments show the presence of UA
[7] MMUNICATIONS | (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications --- PAGE 11 --- 26. Mohapatra, H., Kleiman, M. & Esser-Kahn, A. P. Mechanically controlled radical polymerization initiated by ultrasound. Nat. Chem. 9, 135–139 (2017). 27. Orszulik, S. T. The use of ultrasound and a thermolabile radical initiator in the polymerization of acrylate monomers. Polym. (Guildf.) 34, 1320–1321 (1993). 28. Narayanan, B. et al. Cavitation and radicals drive the sonochemical synthesis of functional polymer spheres. Appl. Phys. Lett . 109, 041901 (2016). 29. Zhu, D., Handschuh-Wang, S. & Zh
[8] Kleiman, M. & Esser-Kahn, A. P. Mechanically controlled radical polymerization initiated by ultrasound. Nat. Chem. 9, 135–139 (2017). 27. Orszulik, S. T. The use of ultrasound and a thermolabile radical initiator in the polymerization of acrylate monomers. Polym. (Guildf.) 34, 1320–1321 (1993). 28. Narayanan, B. et al. Cavitation and radicals drive the sonochemical synthesis of functional polymer spheres. Appl. Phys. Lett . 109, 041901 (2016). 29. Zhu, D., Handschuh-Wang, S. & Zhou, X. Recent progress in fabrication and application of polydimethylsiloxane sponges. J. Mater. Chem. A 5, 16467–16497 (2017). 30. McMurray, H. N. & Wilson

SNIPPETS FOR curing:
[1] d which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound Printing (DSP), in a heat curing thermoset, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) that cannot be printed directly so far by any method. Sonochemiluminescnce, high speed imaging and process characterization experiments of DSP and potential applications such as remote distance printing are presented. Our method establishes an alternative route in AM using ultrasound as the energy source. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 OPEN 1 Optical Bio Microsyste
[2]  the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials d
[3] ials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a
[4] ring thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath
[5] aser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build material (monomer mixed with curing agent or different mixtures) through exposing to the focused ultrasonic ﬁeld. We call this method Direct Sound Printing (DSP). The ultrasonic ﬁeld, which is generated by a monolithic spherical focused transducer, reaches the build material after passing through the shell of the build chamber. At the focal location in the build material, as shown in Fig. 1a and detailed in Fig. 1b, the chemically active acousti
[6] re char- acteristics of the transducer driving pulse (such as electrical power, frequency and duty cycle which is the active fraction of the driving pulse period), build materials (such as the mixing ratio of monomer to curing agent, mixture ratio, viscosity and surface tension) and the transducer motion (such as velocity and accel- eration of the transducer). Different micro structures result in optically transparent to opaque parts in DSP. The resultant opacity is due to the porous structure of the printed part, which can be controlled/by manipulating the DSP input parameters. As shown in Fig. 1c, letters of “DSP” are printed with
[7] us structure of the printed part, which can be controlled/by manipulating the DSP input parameters. As shown in Fig. 1c, letters of “DSP” are printed with varying mixing ratios of base Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) to the curing agent. Mixing ratio 10:1 (polymer base to curing agent) gives layered porous/transparent structure for letters “D” and “P” as shown Fig. 1c-1, 1c-2, and 1c-4. However, ratio 13:1 gives a transparent structure as shown Fig. 1c-3. Therefore, DPS is capable of printing parts from optically transparent to opaque (porous) parts. Although transparent PDMS is desirable in many applications, porous PDMS (sponge) has a
[8] ntrolled/by manipulating the DSP input parameters. As shown in Fig. 1c, letters of “DSP” are printed with varying mixing ratios of base Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) to the curing agent. Mixing ratio 10:1 (polymer base to curing agent) gives layered porous/transparent structure for letters “D” and “P” as shown Fig. 1c-1, 1c-2, and 1c-4. However, ratio 13:1 gives a transparent structure as shown Fig. 1c-3. Therefore, DPS is capable of printing parts from optically transparent to opaque (porous) parts. Although transparent PDMS is desirable in many applications, porous PDMS (sponge) has a wide range of applications29 too from ﬂexible co

SNIPPETS FOR cure:
[1] sses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with f
[2] ible to print materials with usual energy sources would emerge. An example for such materials is heat-curing thermoset polymers. Thermosets can be cured either optically or thermally. Additive manufacturing of optically cured thermosets is possible via light-based AM methods. However, an effective on-demand curing of heat-curing polymers are yet to be introduced due to the difﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has
[3] n in DSP at 20 W is ~100 W/cm 2 as shown in Supplementary Fig. 8g. The printing pressure is less than 2 MPa as shown in Supplementary Fig. 8i. Process and material characterization . Material characteristics of normally cured PDMS samples in room temperature are compared with printed walls using DSP method for different PDMS mixing ratios by Raman Spectroscopy as shown in Fig. 4a–d. Raman spectrum of printed materials are in good agreement with the normally cured PDMS (reference spectrum in Fig. 4a–d). This shows that DSP technology results in the same material as the normally cured PDMS. The PDMS system used in this paper is Sylgar
[4] room temperature are compared with printed walls using DSP method for different PDMS mixing ratios by Raman Spectroscopy as shown in Fig. 4a–d. Raman spectrum of printed materials are in good agreement with the normally cured PDMS (reference spectrum in Fig. 4a–d). This shows that DSP technology results in the same material as the normally cured PDMS. The PDMS system used in this paper is Sylgard 184, which is a two component system. The elastomer and the curing agent contain vinyl-terminated siloxane and Si-H moieties, respectively. The crosslinking happens between vinyl group and Si –H bond37. During curing, the intensity of chara
[5] s shown in Fig. 4a–d. Raman spectrum of printed materials are in good agreement with the normally cured PDMS (reference spectrum in Fig. 4a–d). This shows that DSP technology results in the same material as the normally cured PDMS. The PDMS system used in this paper is Sylgard 184, which is a two component system. The elastomer and the curing agent contain vinyl-terminated siloxane and Si-H moieties, respectively. The crosslinking happens between vinyl group and Si –H bond37. During curing, the intensity of characteristic infrared (IR) bands of vinyl and silane (Si-H) stretches reduce; these reductions can be used as an indication o
[6] hip 43,44, tissue and organ-on-a chip devices45–47 and biological machines 48,49 due to its biocompat- ibility, transparency and gas permeability properties 50,51. Sophisticated light-based AM is able to print optically cured silicone elastomers 52–54. However, this method requires postprocessing of some of the printed parts to remove remaining toxic photopolymerization byproducts and unreacted compounds by solvents52. Moreover, there is no practical solution for printing thermally cured thermosets 25, in this case heat-curing PDMS, as always an additive 55 needed to be introduced to change the rheology of the printing material 56, 
[7] method requires postprocessing of some of the printed parts to remove remaining toxic photopolymerization byproducts and unreacted compounds by solvents52. Moreover, there is no practical solution for printing thermally cured thermosets 25, in this case heat-curing PDMS, as always an additive 55 needed to be introduced to change the rheology of the printing material 56, mainly to increase the visc- osity of the deposited material to stand long enough for heat- curing or release the material completely in a supportive bath57–59. Adding another part to the PDMS system (polymer base and curing agent) changes the material properties and
[8] kin 3 mm 3 mm Opaque Printing Material d Computer Imaging System Driving System 3D Manipulator Printing Head Matching Medium UAMR Material Injection Fig. 5 Potential applications of DSP. a Light-based AM and small cure depth for opaque printing materials. b DSP and deep penetration of ultrasound in opaque printing materials. c Printing opaque micro/nano composites by DSP. d The concept of an ideal DSP technology for noninvasive inside body printing. e in-vitro/ex-vivo prove of concept setup. f Tissue phantom of human skin and muscle. g A printed maple leaf using the tissue phantom. h Real porcine tissue compromising skin, fat 

SNIPPETS FOR acoustic:
[1]  cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound Printing (DSP), in a heat curing thermoset, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) that cannot be printed directly so far by any method. Sonochemiluminescnce, high speed imaging and pr
[2] fﬁculty of applying very short heating and cooling rates at small localized regions25. Sonochemistry can be a solution to print such materials due to its highly localized temperature with fast heating and cooling rates. Acoustic assisted polymerization 26–28 has been studied extensively. However, these studie sw e r ec o n d u c t e di na nu l t r a s o n i c bath or by a horn which lack highly focused reaction region (which is analogous to a laser beam spot in SLA or DLW) and high rate of polymerization, which are necessary for 3D printing. Here, as shown in Fig. 1a, we 3D print objects inside a build chamber ﬁlled with the build m
[3] erical focused transducer, reaches the build material after passing through the shell of the build chamber. At the focal location in the build material, as shown in Fig. 1a and detailed in Fig. 1b, the chemically active acoustic cavitation region solidiﬁes the liquid resin or mixture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel wher
[4] inting polymer, we could drive polymerization in the region and solidify the material conse- quently. The resemblance of this active region to the laser beam spot SLA inspired us to seek the possibility of printing with acoustic waves. In photochemistry (as in SLA), very large amounts of energy are introduced in a short-period in the form of electrical excitation. However, in sonochemistry (as in DSP), this energy is thermal 20 with very fast heating and cooling rate inside the cavitation bubble so that it doesn ’t transfer to the surrounding liquid. This short-lived thermal energy could polymerize heat- curing polymers in DSP. Resu
[5] he ﬁrst set of tests are conducted with a static platform ( v = 0) with h = 30 mm and 22 mm. 30 mm is selected because at this location the platform is placed at the highly chemically active region. The simulated linear acoustic pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the
[6]  = 30 mm and 22 mm. 30 mm is selected because at this location the platform is placed at the highly chemically active region. The simulated linear acoustic pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e
[7] ltrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e illustrates the captured printing phenomena in the chamber for h = 30 mm (corresponding to Fig. 2c). Figure 2e-1a shows the moment right before the insonication at t = 0 of the area A shown in Fig. 2a. Figure 2e-1b is the magni ﬁed region showed in Fig. 2e-1a. Figure 2e-1a and 2e-1c are capt
[8] mum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e illustrates the captured printing phenomena in the chamber for h = 30 mm (corresponding to Fig. 2c). Figure 2e-1a shows the moment right before the insonication at t = 0 of the area A shown in Fig. 2a. Figure 2e-1b is the magni ﬁed region showed in Fig. 2e-1a. Figure 2e-1a and 2e-1c are captured by the high-speed camera and the ARTICLE NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://d

SNIPPETS FOR pressure:
[1] - cesses for polymerization or melting/deposition of polymers. However, ultrasound activated sonochemical reactions present a unique way to generate hotspots in cavitation bubbles with extraordinary high temperature and pressure along with high heating and cooling rates which are out of reach for the current AM technologies. Here, we demonstrate 3D printing of structures using acoustic cavitation produced directly by focused ultrasound which creates sonochemical reactions in highly localized cavitation regions. Complex geometries with zero to varying porosities and 280 μm feature size are printed by our method, Direct Sound Printing
[2] aments or powders, like in fused deposition modeling (FDM)16 or selective laser sintering (SLS) 17. Parameters controlling the chemical interactions are de ﬁned by the amount of energy per molecule, interaction time and pressure 18–22. Existing AM energy sources, light and heat, do not utilize all the potential of the chemistry in terms of the control parameters while sonochemistry pushes these parameters to their limits. Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates (over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as hotspots23,24, surrounded
[3] light and heat, do not utilize all the potential of the chemistry in terms of the control parameters while sonochemistry pushes these parameters to their limits. Extraordinary high temperature (exceeding 15,000 K), high pressure (exceeding 1000 bar) and fast heating and cooling rates (over 10 12 K/s)18 inside the active cavitation bubbles, known as hotspots23,24, surrounded by bulk liquid at room temperature, are the reasons for the sonochemical reactions. If one could unleash the potential of sonochemistry in AM pro- cesses, an unconventional route for printing conventional as well as impossible to print materials with usual energy
[4] ture and deposits it to the plat- form, or on top of previously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process affect the microstructure of the printed parts. T
[5] ously deposited and solidi ﬁed regions. We call this region as ultra-active micro reactor (UAMR) where generated bubbles and polymerized resin appear at the low- pressure zones and then they migrate momentarily to high- pressure zones until they reach to the platform or previous soli- diﬁed pixel where they are deposited. The transducer is moved in the medium by a motion manipulator to locate the focal region along a calculated path in the build chamber to create the desired part pixel by pixel. Input parameters of DSP process affect the microstructure of the printed parts. These parameters are char- acteristics of the transducer dr
[6] et of tests are conducted with a static platform ( v = 0) with h = 30 mm and 22 mm. 30 mm is selected because at this location the platform is placed at the highly chemically active region. The simulated linear acoustic pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform
[7] and 22 mm. 30 mm is selected because at this location the platform is placed at the highly chemically active region. The simulated linear acoustic pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e illustra
[8] pressure pattern for h = 30 mm is shown in Fig. 2c. The maximum acoustic pressure of 3 MPa is created at the platform surface where the ultrasound focal point is located. However, if the platform is lowered, the maximum pressure would not hap- pen at the platform surface. As an example shown in Fig. 2d, if the platform is placed at h = 22 mm, the maximum acoustic pressure will be at 8.64 mm distance from the platform surface due to acoustic re ﬂection from the platform. Figure 2e illustrates the captured printing phenomena in the chamber for h = 30 mm (corresponding to Fig. 2c). Figure 2e-1a shows the moment right before the insonic

SNIPPETS FOR radical:
[1] ous solution of luminol (3-aminophthalhydrazide) to identify the spatial dis- tribution of active chemical regions under focused ultrasound exposure (see Supplementary Information and Supplementary Figs. 1 –7). Hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen peroxide generated sonochemcially react with luminol where blue light is emitted30–32. We observed the localized light at the focal region at certain experimental conditions. If we could utilize this reactivity of the localized region in the printing polymer, we could drive polymerization in the region and solidify the material conse- quently. The resemblance of this active region to the laser b
[2]  chemically active regions in the printing resin or resin mixture medium in which the resin undergoes fast phase transformation from liquid to solid under sonochemical reactions. With DSP, heat-curing polymers with free radical polymerization process such as heat- curing thermosets, which could not be printed directly by photo or heat energy sources in AM processes, can now be printed directly. The basic mechanism of DSP is presented using SCL experiments. The chemically active 3D printing region in DSP is analogous to a laser beam spot in common photo or heat-based AM technologies. Our high-speed imaging experiments show the presen
[3] during cavitation. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 59, 659 –683 (2008). 20. Suslick, K. S. Sonochemistry. Science (80-.). 247, 1439 –1445 (1990). 21. Didenko, Y. T. & Suslick, K. S. The energy ef ﬁciency of formation of photons, radicals and ions during single-bubble cavitation. Nature 418, 394–397 (2002). 22. Flint, E. B., Suslick, K. S., Series, N. & Sep, N. The Temperature of cavitation the temperature of cavitation. Icarus 253, 1397 –1399 (2007). 23. Pokhrel, N., Vabbina, P. K. & Pala, N. Sonochemistry: science and engineering. Ultrason. Sonochem. 29, 104 –128 (2016). 24. Suslick, K. S., Eddingsaas, N. C., Flannigan, D. J., Hopkins, S. D
[4] ATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2022) 13:1800 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29395-1 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications --- PAGE 11 --- 26. Mohapatra, H., Kleiman, M. & Esser-Kahn, A. P. Mechanically controlled radical polymerization initiated by ultrasound. Nat. Chem. 9, 135–139 (2017). 27. Orszulik, S. T. The use of ultrasound and a thermolabile radical initiator in the polymerization of acrylate monomers. Polym. (Guildf.) 34, 1320–1321 (1993). 28. Narayanan, B. et al. Cavitation and radicals drive the sonochemical synthesis of functional polymer spheres. Appl. Phys. Lett . 109, 041901 (2016). 29. Zhu, D., Handschuh-Wang,
[5] 1 --- 26. Mohapatra, H., Kleiman, M. & Esser-Kahn, A. P. Mechanically controlled radical polymerization initiated by ultrasound. Nat. Chem. 9, 135–139 (2017). 27. Orszulik, S. T. The use of ultrasound and a thermolabile radical initiator in the polymerization of acrylate monomers. Polym. (Guildf.) 34, 1320–1321 (1993). 28. Narayanan, B. et al. Cavitation and radicals drive the sonochemical synthesis of functional polymer spheres. Appl. Phys. Lett . 109, 041901 (2016). 29. Zhu, D., Handschuh-Wang, S. & Zhou, X. Recent progress in fabrication and application of polydimethylsiloxane sponges. J. Mater. Chem. A 5, 16467–16497 (2017). 30.
[6] , 135–139 (2017). 27. Orszulik, S. T. The use of ultrasound and a thermolabile radical initiator in the polymerization of acrylate monomers. Polym. (Guildf.) 34, 1320–1321 (1993). 28. Narayanan, B. et al. Cavitation and radicals drive the sonochemical synthesis of functional polymer spheres. Appl. Phys. Lett . 109, 041901 (2016). 29. Zhu, D., Handschuh-Wang, S. & Zhou, X. Recent progress in fabrication and application of polydimethylsiloxane sponges. J. Mater. Chem. A 5, 16467–16497 (2017). 30. McMurray, H. N. & Wilson, B. P. Mechanistic and spatial study of ultrasonically induced luminol chemiluminescence. J. Phys. Chem. A 103, 395
====================================================================================================
C:\Users\Zh89\Desktop\毕设\s41467-024-50923-8.pdf
pages: 14
keyword hits:
cavitation: 25
bubble: 31
bubbles: 21
polymer: 30
polymerization: 19
curing: 8
cure: 5
dose: 0
void: 2
acoustic: 95
pressure: 54
threshold: 5
radical: 1

FIRST_12000:

--- PAGE 1 ---
Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-50923-8
Holographic direct sound printing
Mahdi Derayatifar 1, Mohsen Habibi2,R a m aB h a t1 &
Muthukumaran Packirisamy1
Direct sound printing (DSP), an alternative additive manufacturing process
driven by sonochemical polymerization, has traditionally been conﬁned to a
single acoustic focal region, resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To
overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing
(HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the
desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles
and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f
printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc-
tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the
printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm.
We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed imaging experiments to
thoroughly investigate HDSP and demonstrate its versatility in applications
such as remote ex-vivo in-body printing and complex robot trajectory plan-
ning. We showcase multi-object and multi-material printing and provide a
comprehensive process characterization, including the effects of hologram
design and manufacturing on the HDSP process, polymerization progression
tracking, porosity tuning, and robotic trajectory computation. Our HDSP
method establishes the integration ofacoustic holography in DSP and related
applications.
Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM)
processes introduced recently by our research group in which che-
mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in
focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif-
ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source
and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light
2–4 or
heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation.
However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic
behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the
sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil-
lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio-
lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates
localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach
extreme levels
8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical
bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub-
bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process,
allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at
microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a
destructive force
11, has recently become the focus of exploration for
beneﬁcial and innovative outcomes. This includes applications in
medical and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial
processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea-
tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of
materials, such as heat-curing thermosets, which are dif ﬁcult to pro-
cess with light or heat. Moreover, DSP introduced a new paradigm in
AM called remote distance printing (RDP)
1 in which the possibility of
printing beyond optically opaque and non-transparent obstacles is
presented.
O u rp i o n e e r i n gw o r k so nD S Pa n dR D P
1,15–17 have garnered sig-
niﬁcant interest, igniting new research into ultrasound-driven 3D
printing. We introduced the paradigm of printing through physical
barriers, such as directly inside the human body
1. The concept of
Received: 30 November 2023
Accepted: 24 July 2024
Check for updates
1Optical Bio Microsystems Laboratory, Micro-Nano-Bio Integration Center, Department of Mechanical, Industrial and Aerospace Engineering, Concordia
University, Montreal, QC, Canada.2Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of California at Davis, Davis, CA, USA.
e-mail: m.packirisamy@concordia.ca
Nature Communications|         (2024) 15:6691 1
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
--- PAGE 2 ---
non-invasive deep printing inside the body was initially demonstrated
ex vivo1. The chemical reactivity induced by ultrasound sources arises
from a mix of thermochemistry, caused by heat generation through
acoustic attenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic
cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic
scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient
to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or
epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac-
tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on-
demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc-
cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body
printing
18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface
has been used as the primary ultrasound source to create an acoustic
focal region and printﬁlaments of thermoset materials
20.A d d i t i o n a l l y ,
a cost-effective sound-based 3D printer has been developed, capable
of solidifying silicone elastomer and egg white 21. In all of the above-
mentioned works on DSP, single-focal ultrasound sources have been
utilized.
Similar to stereolithography (SLA) in which a single laser spot is
the only chemically active region, we had presented the same single
active region concept in our initial work
1 to present DSP for the ﬁrst
time. This was mainly due to implementation simplicity. Therefore,
DSP suffers similar to SLA (or single nozzle extrusion-based deposition
modeling
5,22 or direct ink writing3,23) from the fact that only one voxel at
a time can be created. To remedy this in the concept of SLA, the
utilization of digital light processing (DLP)24,25 was introduced in which
a cross-section image isﬂashed on the entire printing platform to cure
the whole layer at once. Later on, the concept of volumetric
printing
26,27 emerged in which instead of cross-section the entire
volume of the part is created almost instantly. In addition, sequential
illumination via projected tomography
28–31 made a substantial advan-
ces in the volumetric additive manufacturingﬁeld as well.
DSP lacks similar concepts to bring the current voxel-by-voxel
DSP to the next level by creating a cross-section or the whole part
volume at once. In the present paper, we introduce a DSP method in
which the polymerization occurs at a cross-section at once instead of
point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography
to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where
the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived
polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis-
tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in
contrast to a focused point in DSP
1.
In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased
array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently
and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they
greatly suffer from generating a very low-resolution acoustic ﬁeld
since their element counts are limited and elements are larger in size
compared to the wavelengths in MHz frequency. In addition, they have
a drawback of requiring complicated electrical equipment and
synchronization
32–34.T h i sm a d eu st oi m p l e m e n tt h ec o n c e p to ft h e
present paper by acoustic holograms. Acoustic holograms or meta-
materials are alternatives to PATs with a higher degree of freedom in
manipulating the sound ﬁeld
35–39. They possess high information con-
tent that can create intricate arbitrary sound ﬁelds while offering an
inexpensive and simple setup. A plethora of applications has been
employed via acoustic holography using transmission acoustic holo-
grams including cell and particle patterning
33,40,41, medical imaging42,
hyperthermia treatment 43, neurostimulation and transcranial
therapy44,45 and particle assembly46,47.
Here in this paper, we present a holography-based DSP process, or
in short HDSP, in which the information of the cross sections of the
part to be printed are stored in an acoustic hologram. During the
sonication of the printing material, the active cavitation bubbles are
generated at the target images while the printing material polymerizes
instantly. Figure 1a shows the concept of HDPS schematically where
the acoustic holography source, in this case a passive monolithic 3D
printed hologram, is attached to a single-element ﬂat transducer.
Employing the acoustic holography as an advanced acoustic manip-
ulation tool has shown reduced printing time while being energy efﬁ-
cient compared with the point-based DSP.
Results
We stored the information of the printed part in the hologram devel-
oped using the iterative angular spectrum (IAS) method 35 and 3D
printed the hologram using SLA. The build chamber is positioned in
front of the hologram andﬁlled with the printing material (see section
“Methods”). The transducer, hologram and the bottom face of the
build chamber are submerged in the transmitting water medium. The
hologram coordinate system is stationary and attached to the surface
of the hologram. The ultrasound wave patterned by the hologram
passes through the thin build chamber bottom face and a portion of
the build material until it reaches to a printing platform. The front face
of the printing platform is located at the image plane location. The
platform is moved in space by a motion manipulator, a robot, along a
three-dimensional path which is calculated for the desired part. The
platform is attached to the end effector of a robot. The end-effector
coordinate system moves with respect to the hologram coordinate
system. Since the platform is located at the image plane at the begin-
ning of the process, the cavitation bubbles are generated at the desired
image creating ultra-active micro reactors
1 region and polymerizing
the printing material on the platform or previously solidiﬁed region of
the part as shown in Fig.1b. The platform is placed at the target image
plane where the acoustic pressure more than the threshold for printing
is reached. Moreover, due to the low viscosity medium, the platform is
needed to adhere to the already solidiﬁed part. By moving the platform
along z-axis by feed,f, the part is generated as an extruded object along
z-axis as portion I in Fig. 1a. By rotating the platform aboutz-axis at an
angular velocity, ω, and extruding by feed f, an extruded and twisted
object can be created as portion II in Fig. 1a. Figure 1c shows printed
letters “D”, “S” and “P” and their corresponding theoretical pressure
patterns created by their hologram at the image plane. Figure1ds h o w s
a more complicated maple leaf printed object and its theoretical
pressure pattern at the image plane. The platform is stationary in
Fig. 1c, d. Figure 1e is a 15 mm long printed wall where its hologram
creates a pressure pattern of a line at the image plane on the platform
and the platform is moved continuously to create the extruded wall
along +z-direction (Supplementary Movies 1 and 2). Figure1fs h o w st h e
incorporation of the rotation to the platform while translation in z-
direction using the same holograms that project the line image on the
platform (Supplementary Movie 3). The printed helix in Fig. 1fr e p r e -
sents successful unsupported features printing in HDSP by tuning the
printing platform motion velocity and the patterned intensity. Beyond
translational and rotatory movements of the platform as in Fig. 1e, f,
HDSP enables the printing geometries along a free-from path. How-
ever, the robot’s trajectory for such parts needs to be calculated based
on our developed algorithms presented in the “Methods” section.
Figure 1gs h o w saU-shaped part printed with the same hologram as in
Fig. 1e, f with a line image withou

SNIPPETS FOR cavitation:
[1] ting approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm. We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed imaging experiments to thoroughly
[2] ion ofacoustic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles with
[3] source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. 
[4] 7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, c
[5]  also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a destructive force 11, has recently become the focus of exploration for beneﬁcial and innovative outcomes. This includes applications in medical and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea- tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of materials, such as heat-curing thermosets
[6]  has recently become the focus of exploration for beneﬁcial and innovative outcomes. This includes applications in medical and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea- tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of materials, such as heat-curing thermosets, which are dif ﬁcult to pro- cess with light or heat. Moreover, DSP introduced a new paradigm in AM called remote distance printing (RDP) 1 in which the possibility of printing beyond optically opaque and non-transparent obstacles is presented. O u rp i o n e e r i n gw o r k so nD 
[7] ially demonstrated ex vivo1. The chemical reactivity induced by ultrasound sources arises from a mix of thermochemistry, caused by heat generation through acoustic attenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessful
[8]  of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body printing 18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface has been used as the primary ultrasound source to create an acoustic focal region and printﬁlaments of thermoset materials 20.A d d i t i o n a l l y , a cost-effect

SNIPPETS FOR bubble:
[1] ch. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm. We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed imaging experiments to thoroughly investigat
[2] tic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acous
[3] the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intens
[4] ing chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for 
[5] in an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a
[6] strated ex vivo1. The chemical reactivity induced by ultrasound sources arises from a mix of thermochemistry, caused by heat generation through acoustic attenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed 
[7] al region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body printing 18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface has been used as the primary ultrasound source to create an acoustic focal region and printﬁlaments of thermoset materials 20.A d d i t i o n a l l y , a cost-effective sound-b
[8]  by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-resolution acoustic ﬁeld since their element counts a

SNIPPETS FOR bubbles:
[1] ch. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm. We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed imaging experiments to thoroughly investigat
[2] tic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acous
[3] the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intens
[4] ing chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for 
[5] in an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a
[6] strated ex vivo1. The chemical reactivity induced by ultrasound sources arises from a mix of thermochemistry, caused by heat generation through acoustic attenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed 
[7] al region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body printing 18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface has been used as the primary ultrasound source to create an acoustic focal region and printﬁlaments of thermoset materials 20.A d d i t i o n a l l y , a cost-effective sound-b
[8]  by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-resolution acoustic ﬁeld since their element counts a

SNIPPETS FOR polymer:
[1] 50923-8 Holographic direct sound printing Mahdi Derayatifar 1, Mohsen Habibi2,R a m aB h a t1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy1 Direct sound printing (DSP), an alternative additive manufacturing process driven by sonochemical polymerization, has traditionally been conﬁned to a single acoustic focal region, resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m
[2] , we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm. We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed imaging experiments to thoroughly investigate HDSP and demonstrate its vers
[3] lex robot trajectory plan- ning. We showcase multi-object and multi-material printing and provide a comprehensive process characterization, including the effects of hologram design and manufacturing on the HDSP process, polymerization progression tracking, porosity tuning, and robotic trajectory computation. Our HDSP method establishes the integration ofacoustic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoust
[4] in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. Durin
[5] ly to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a destructive force 11, has recently become the focus of exploration for beneﬁcial and innovative outcomes. This includes applications in medical and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea- tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of mat
[6] ld as well. DSP lacks similar concepts to bring the current voxel-by-voxel DSP to the next level by creating a cross-section or the whole part volume at once. In the present paper, we introduce a DSP method in which the polymerization occurs at a cross-section at once instead of point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a fo
[7] e instead of point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-reso
[8] e cross sections of the part to be printed are stored in an acoustic hologram. During the sonication of the printing material, the active cavitation bubbles are generated at the target images while the printing material polymerizes instantly. Figure 1a shows the concept of HDPS schematically where the acoustic holography source, in this case a passive monolithic 3D printed hologram, is attached to a single-element ﬂat transducer. Employing the acoustic holography as an advanced acoustic manip- ulation tool has shown reduced printing time while being energy efﬁ- cient compared with the point-based DSP. Results We stored the informati

SNIPPETS FOR polymerization:
[1] 50923-8 Holographic direct sound printing Mahdi Derayatifar 1, Mohsen Habibi2,R a m aB h a t1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy1 Direct sound printing (DSP), an alternative additive manufacturing process driven by sonochemical polymerization, has traditionally been conﬁned to a single acoustic focal region, resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m
[2] lex robot trajectory plan- ning. We showcase multi-object and multi-material printing and provide a comprehensive process characterization, including the effects of hologram design and manufacturing on the HDSP process, polymerization progression tracking, porosity tuning, and robotic trajectory computation. Our HDSP method establishes the integration ofacoustic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoust
[3] in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. Durin
[4] ly to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a destructive force 11, has recently become the focus of exploration for beneﬁcial and innovative outcomes. This includes applications in medical and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea- tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of mat
[5] ld as well. DSP lacks similar concepts to bring the current voxel-by-voxel DSP to the next level by creating a cross-section or the whole part volume at once. In the present paper, we introduce a DSP method in which the polymerization occurs at a cross-section at once instead of point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a fo
[6] e instead of point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-reso
[7] ic power is being distributed in the image pixels of the target plane, if the image has more complexity, the acoustic power should be increased as well to supply enough power at the image to induce cavitation and derive polymerization. We adjusted the acoustic power ranging from 5 to 25 W depending on the part complexity to have enough pressure (~2 MPa, this pressure threshold is critical for initiating the sono- chemical reactions required for the polymerization process in PDMS) in the image plane pixels required for printing. We have found that increasing the emitted power or acoustic pressure beyond this threshold disturbs the pa
[8] n. We adjusted the acoustic power ranging from 5 to 25 W depending on the part complexity to have enough pressure (~2 MPa, this pressure threshold is critical for initiating the sono- chemical reactions required for the polymerization process in PDMS) in the image plane pixels required for printing. We have found that increasing the emitted power or acoustic pressure beyond this threshold disturbs the pattern uniformity. This disturbance occurs because the excessive acoustic force generates streaming within the resin, negatively impacting the print quality. In addition, due to the unique pressure ampli ﬁcation of each acoustic patte

SNIPPETS FOR curing:
[1] cal and biomedical12, environmental management13 and industrial processing14. DSP also leverages the cavitation phenomena for crea- tion. DSP is a unique AM method enabling the direct printing of materials, such as heat-curing thermosets, which are dif ﬁcult to pro- cess with light or heat. Moreover, DSP introduced a new paradigm in AM called remote distance printing (RDP) 1 in which the possibility of printing beyond optically opaque and non-transparent obstacles is presented. O u rp i o n e e r i n gw o r k so nD S Pa n dR D P 1,15–17 have garnered sig- niﬁcant interest, igniting new research into ultrasound-driven 3D printing. We
[2] ttenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body printing 18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface has been used as the primary ultras
[3] ﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand curing for such materials. Later, hydrogels have been suc- cessfully printed using DSP to reaf ﬁrm the concept of in-body printing 18,19. Recently, an ultrasonic horn with a concave front surface has been used as the primary ultrasound source to create an acoustic focal region and printﬁlaments of thermoset materials 20.A d d i t i o n a l l y , a cost-effective sound-based 3D printer has been developed, capable of s
[4] ing speciﬁc areas one at a time in a one-dimensional (1D) manner. Subsequently, the introduction of DLP represented a signiﬁcant evolution in printing speed and ef ﬁciency, shifting from SLA’s sequential, point-by-point curing method, to a more efﬁcient, 2D strategy. By projecting entire cross-sectional images onto the printing platform, DLP facilitates the simultaneous curing of whole layers, sig- niﬁcantly enhancing both speed and ef ﬁciency in the photo- polymerization printing process. Methods Acoustic equipment Three single-element ﬂat transducers of various dimensions and fre- quencies were used in this study. These commercial
[5] eed and ef ﬁciency, shifting from SLA’s sequential, point-by-point curing method, to a more efﬁcient, 2D strategy. By projecting entire cross-sectional images onto the printing platform, DLP facilitates the simultaneous curing of whole layers, sig- niﬁcantly enhancing both speed and ef ﬁciency in the photo- polymerization printing process. Methods Acoustic equipment Three single-element ﬂat transducers of various dimensions and fre- quencies were used in this study. These commercially available ﬂat transducers (American Piezo Co., USA) have active elements of ~0.9–1.1 mm thicknesses, with OD = 50, 35 and 25 mm with center fre- quenc
[6] hydrophone while the speed of sound in PDMS with dif- ferent mixing ratios was obtained via high-speed images to be used for the furtherﬁnite element simulations. Mostly we used 10:1 mixing ratio of the base PDMS to the curing agent, and the speed of sound obtained was ~1040 m/s. Furthermore, we performed the pressure mapping with an in-house setup including an acrylic test tank of 1 × 0.75 × 0.75 m dimensionﬁlled with DI water with a needle hydrophone mounted on a computer-controlled positioner. An oscilloscope (Tektronix DPO2400) was used to acquire the needle hydrophone signal which was then connected to MATLAB R2020b to store an
[7]  with the computer and trig- gered by the input burst pulse to the transducer. Printing material preparation SYLGARD 184 kit (Krayden, Canada) is used as the printing material in this paper. The PDMS system (monomer and curing agent) was mixed with the de ﬁned mixing ratios. The mixture was degassed using a vacuum for 45 min. The PDMS system was colored by adding the 2% w/w oil-based dye (Winsor & Newton, UK) to the base monomer. Holography-based SCL experiment and high-speed imaging A 1 mM solution of luminol (3-aminophthalhydrazide, Sigma-Aldrich, Canada) is prepared, and the pH is adjusted to 12 using NaOH (Sigma- Article https:/
[8] ies between sono- luminescence, sonochemiluminescence and dosimetry with fre- quency variation underﬂow. Ultrason. Sonochem.58, 104645 (2019). 51. Murphy, E. C. et al. Tailoring properties and processing of Sylgard 184: curing time, adhesion, and water afﬁnity. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 137,1 – 10 (2020). 5 2 . E s t e v e s ,A .C .C .e ta l .I nﬂuence of cross-linker concentration on the cross-linking of PDMS and the network structures formed.Polymer 50,3 9 5 5– 3966 (2009). 5 3 . X u ,M . ,W a n g ,J . ,H a r l e y ,W .S . ,L e e ,P .&C o l l i n s ,D .J .P r o g r a m m a b l e acoustic holography using medium-sound-speed modulation.A

SNIPPETS FOR cure:
[1]  one voxel at a time can be created. To remedy this in the concept of SLA, the utilization of digital light processing (DLP)24,25 was introduced in which a cross-section image isﬂashed on the entire printing platform to cure the whole layer at once. Later on, the concept of volumetric printing 26,27 emerged in which instead of cross-section the entire volume of the part is created almost instantly. In addition, sequential illumination via projected tomography 28–31 made a substantial advan- ces in the volumetric additive manufacturingﬁeld as well. DSP lacks similar concepts to bring the current voxel-by-voxel DSP to the next level b
[2] mentary Fig. 5c. The polymerization progress is quanti ﬁed by tracking the Si –H bond intensity in infrared (IR) measurements 51,52 of before and after print specimens of PDMS (two components system) as well as normally cured PDMS in an oven. The IR measurements are shown in Supple- mentary Fig. 3a where printed walls with 10% and 20 % DC measured right after print (~10 s printing time for the wall with 10 mm height) show the same amount of Si –H intensity as the normal heat cured PDMS after 24 h in the oven. This shows that the polymerization in HDSP has the same progress as the molded polymer and cured in the oven. Mechanical tens
[3] ts are shown in Supple- mentary Fig. 3a where printed walls with 10% and 20 % DC measured right after print (~10 s printing time for the wall with 10 mm height) show the same amount of Si –H intensity as the normal heat cured PDMS after 24 h in the oven. This shows that the polymerization in HDSP has the same progress as the molded polymer and cured in the oven. Mechanical tensile tests revealed the difference in mechanical properties 1. Following the DSP, the printed parts revealed consistent elastic modulus compared with the normally cured resin, although the tensile strength is different. Speciﬁcally, parts with a porous structur
[4] me for the wall with 10 mm height) show the same amount of Si –H intensity as the normal heat cured PDMS after 24 h in the oven. This shows that the polymerization in HDSP has the same progress as the molded polymer and cured in the oven. Mechanical tensile tests revealed the difference in mechanical properties 1. Following the DSP, the printed parts revealed consistent elastic modulus compared with the normally cured resin, although the tensile strength is different. Speciﬁcally, parts with a porous structure exhibit reduced tensile strength compared to the transparent parts. This indicates that the cavitation does not affect the m
[5]  the molded polymer and cured in the oven. Mechanical tensile tests revealed the difference in mechanical properties 1. Following the DSP, the printed parts revealed consistent elastic modulus compared with the normally cured resin, although the tensile strength is different. Speciﬁcally, parts with a porous structure exhibit reduced tensile strength compared to the transparent parts. This indicates that the cavitation does not affect the material’s elastic modulus, it does inﬂuence tensile strength, particularly in the printed structures with porosity. It is indeed crucial to ensure consistent acoustic properties throughout the mat

SNIPPETS FOR void:
[1] turbances in the desired acoustic patterning, adversely affecting the print quality. We could also print composite polymers (polymer mixed micro/nano solid particles) 1, however, the mixture should be homogenous too to avoid uneven scattering from the added particles. The presence of air bubbles inside the resin should always be prevented prior to the printing, as bubbles can signiﬁcantly disrupt the propagation of sound waves due to the marked difference in sound speed between air and resin. To mitigate this, we typically degas the resin in a vacuum chamber to remove large air bubbles and achieve a homogeneous material composition.
[2] To mitigate this, we typically degas the resin in a vacuum chamber to remove large air bubbles and achieve a homogeneous material composition. Additionally, careful handling of the resin after degassing is essential to avoid reintroducing air bubbles into the resin. However, it’s important to note that a small percentage of microbubbles may still remain dissolved in the resin after the degassing process. These microbubbles are generally smaller than the wavelength of the sound waves used and do not signiﬁcantly interfere with wave transmission. Instead, they can play a beneﬁcial role in the cavitation process as the weak points in t

SNIPPETS FOR acoustic:
[1]  1, Mohsen Habibi2,R a m aB h a t1 & Muthukumaran Packirisamy1 Direct sound printing (DSP), an alternative additive manufacturing process driven by sonochemical polymerization, has traditionally been conﬁned to a single acoustic focal region, resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magni
[2] polymerization, has traditionally been conﬁned to a single acoustic focal region, resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimen
[3]  resulting ina voxel-by-voxel printing approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce holographic direct sound printing (HDSP), where acoustic holograms, storing cross-sectional images of the desired parts, pattern acoustic waves to induce regional cavitation bubbles and on-demand regional polymerizatio n .H D S Po u t p e r f o r m sD S Pi nt e r m so f printing speed by one order of magnitude and yields layerless printed struc- tures. In our HDSP implementation, the hologram remains stationary while the printing platform moves along a three-dimensional path using a robotic arm. We present sono-chemiluminescence and high-speed
[4] on, including the effects of hologram design and manufacturing on the HDSP process, polymerization progression tracking, porosity tuning, and robotic trajectory computation. Our HDSP method establishes the integration ofacoustic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activ
[5]  integration ofacoustic holography in DSP and related applications. Direct sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bub
[6] t sound printing (DSP)1 is a class of additive manufacturing (AM) processes introduced recently by our research group in which che- mically active acoustic cavitation bubbles derive polymerization in focal regions of an acoustic ﬁeld in a printing resin medium. DSP dif- ferentiates itself from other AM methods mainly on the energy source and the chemical activation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavi
[7] ation. AM processes utilize either light 2–4 or heat5–7 for deriving chemical reactions or physical transformation. However, DSP employs sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment with
[8] -- PAGE 2 --- non-invasive deep printing inside the body was initially demonstrated ex vivo1. The chemical reactivity induced by ultrasound sources arises from a mix of thermochemistry, caused by heat generation through acoustic attenuation, and sonochemistry, resulting from acoustic cavitation bubbles. Notably, the temperature rises at the macroscopic scale of the focal region due to acoustic attenuation were insufﬁcient to facilitate on-demand curing in materials like silicone elastomers or epoxies through thermochemistry alone; hence, sonochemical reac- tions within the cavitation bubbles have been proposed to enable on- demand c

SNIPPETS FOR pressure:
[1] s sonochemistry, which utilizes the dynamic behavior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s p
[2] avior of cavitation bubbles within an acoustic ﬁeld. During the sonochemical process, these cavitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation
[3] avitation bubbles undergo rapid oscil- lations, expanding during periods of low pressure and collapsing vio- lently under high pressure. The collapse of these bubbles generates localized hot spots where temperatures and pressures can reach extreme levels 8–10 sufﬁcient momentarily to break and form chemical bonds or also create ones. This intense environment within the bub- bles enables various chemical reactions, crucial for the DSP process, allowing for precise manipulation of the material’s polymerization at microscopic scales. Cavitation, once predominantly viewed as a destructive force 11, has recently become the focus of explo
[4]  the present paper, we introduce a DSP method in which the polymerization occurs at a cross-section at once instead of point-by-point. We accomplished this by utilizing acoustic holography to create patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and t
[5] ate patterns of acoustic pressure at speciﬁc image planes where the part ’s cross sections are supposed to be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-resolution acoustic ﬁeld since their element counts are limited and elements are larger in si
[6]  be created. The derived polymerization resulting from induced cavitation bubbles is dis- tributed over the whole pressure pattern and in the desired regions, in contrast to a focused point in DSP 1. In order to pattern pressure waves, one approach is to use phased array transducers (PATs) since each element is driven independently and they have dynamic wave-controlling capability. However, they greatly suffer from generating a very low-resolution acoustic ﬁeld since their element counts are limited and elements are larger in size compared to the wavelengths in MHz frequency. In addition, they have a drawback of requiring complicate
[7] ra-active micro reactors 1 region and polymerizing the printing material on the platform or previously solidiﬁed region of the part as shown in Fig.1b. The platform is placed at the target image plane where the acoustic pressure more than the threshold for printing is reached. Moreover, due to the low viscosity medium, the platform is needed to adhere to the already solidiﬁed part. By moving the platform along z-axis by feed,f, the part is generated as an extruded object along z-axis as portion I in Fig. 1a. By rotating the platform aboutz-axis at an angular velocity, ω, and extruding by feed f, an extruded and twisted object can be
[8] boutz-axis at an angular velocity, ω, and extruding by feed f, an extruded and twisted object can be created as portion II in Fig. 1a. Figure 1c shows printed letters “D”, “S” and “P” and their corresponding theoretical pressure patterns created by their hologram at the image plane. Figure1ds h o w s a more complicated maple leaf printed object and its theoretical pressure pattern at the image plane. The platform is stationary in Fig. 1c, d. Figure 1e is a 15 mm long printed wall where its hologram creates a pressure pattern of a line at the image plane on the platform and the platform is moved continuously to create the extruded wa

SNIPPETS FOR threshold:
[1] s 1 region and polymerizing the printing material on the platform or previously solidiﬁed region of the part as shown in Fig.1b. The platform is placed at the target image plane where the acoustic pressure more than the threshold for printing is reached. Moreover, due to the low viscosity medium, the platform is needed to adhere to the already solidiﬁed part. By moving the platform along z-axis by feed,f, the part is generated as an extruded object along z-axis as portion I in Fig. 1a. By rotating the platform aboutz-axis at an angular velocity, ω, and extruding by feed f, an extruded and twisted object can be created as portion II 
[2] l to supply enough power at the image to induce cavitation and derive polymerization. We adjusted the acoustic power ranging from 5 to 25 W depending on the part complexity to have enough pressure (~2 MPa, this pressure threshold is critical for initiating the sono- chemical reactions required for the polymerization process in PDMS) in the image plane pixels required for printing. We have found that increasing the emitted power or acoustic pressure beyond this threshold disturbs the pattern uniformity. This disturbance occurs because the excessive acoustic force generates streaming within the resin, negatively impacting the print qu
[3]  initiating the sono- chemical reactions required for the polymerization process in PDMS) in the image plane pixels required for printing. We have found that increasing the emitted power or acoustic pressure beyond this threshold disturbs the pattern uniformity. This disturbance occurs because the excessive acoustic force generates streaming within the resin, negatively impacting the print quality. In addition, due to the unique pressure ampli ﬁcation of each acoustic pattern, the input acoustic power is compensated and tuned so that enough acoustic energy is transferred to the desired voxels simultaneously to ensure the activation 
[4]  further decreasing the DC in steps of 10% down to 10%, we meticulously identiﬁed the speciﬁc DC level at which bubble clouds ceased to form. Through detailed inspection with smaller steps of 1% DC, we determined the DC threshold where no bubbles were observed was ~14%. In our experiments, DC < 15% resulted in fully transparent parts. It is feasible that printing with lower DC values, demands more printing time than printing with higher on es. The printing time for Supple- mentary Fig. 3b-left with lower DC was observed to be about 30 s while Supplementary Fig. 3b-right took about 15 s. Supplementary Fig. 3d investigates the pulse i
[5] by the pressure ampli ﬁca- tion, PA, which can be obtained th eoretically for each hologram as PA j . To generate a complex geometry, the input power Pin must be adjusted in accordance with the experimentally determined threshold power required for generating a single voxel, P thrsh, voxel . This input power can be found using Eq. 7,w h i c hw a sd e r i v e d from experimental data. Pin = Pthrsh ,v o x e l× PAvoxel PAj /C18/C19 ð7Þ Next, the phase map Φ h can be converted to thickness map and fabricated using h = Φ h=ðkm /C0 khÞ,w h e r ekh and km correspond to wavenumber in hologram material and medium, respectively. In this step,

SNIPPETS FOR radical:
[1] we pattern the acoustic waves at the image plane in an aqueous solution of luminol (3-aminophthalhydrazide). We observed that at the image plane, a blue light pattern is emitted due to sonochemical reactions of hydroxyl radical and hydrogen peroxide with luminol 48–50.T h i s observation proved that localized chemical reactions at the desired target plane could be created using the acoustic holograms through cavitation bubbles generation at the image pixels. Figure2 shows the experimental setup schematically where a digital single-lens re ﬂex (DSLR) captures the image plane illumination during 30 s exposure time in a dark room. Figu